# Assessing-UK-Air-Pollution
Assessing the Effects of Air Pollution and Climate Change on Public Health in England's Major Cities: Predicting Future Trends till 2025 and Understanding the Sustainability

Climate change is a phenomenon where we can observe a change in temperature or change in weather patterns, The climate change is caused because of burning of fossil fuels which emits an emission of greenhouses gases (NO2, NO, O3, SO2 and PM 2.5 & 10). This greenhouse can cause adverse effect on public health. On exposure to this greenhouse gases can lead to chronic respiratory diseases or cardiovascular events. In this dissertation my aims is to understand the current public health of cities, London, Birmingham, and Liverpool and understand the suitability of cities for upcoming years. 

The data for this dissertation is obtained from the DEFRA (Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs) for which I got both annual emission and monthly emission data. I performed time series analysis to understand the trends in the emission of data for each city, performed the descriptive statistical analysis and implemented Tukey’s HSD to understand which has higher emission of pollutant and assumed the monthly data in seasonal perspective to understand which season has maximum emission of pollutant. To study the current the public status of cities, I classified the emission levels to low, moderate, and high, on basing the WHO (World Health Organisation) emission level thresholds values and in order to classify the data I implemented SVM (Support Vector Machine) machine learning algorithm, on basing the emission level I understood current public health status of the cities. To understand the sustainability of the cities, I predicted the emission level till 2025, by using LSTM (Long short-term memory) algorithm and further classified the emission levels based on the WHO threshold levels, on basing the emission levels I studied the sustainability of cities for upcoming years. On summarising all the analysis results I built an interactive Microsoft Power Bi dashboard.

On analysis of annual mean emission data, it is observed that the London is home for almost all the pollutants, followed by the Birmingham and Liverpool. And from the seasonal analysis it observed that maximum emission is emitted in winter and autumn season and least emitted in the summer season. It also observed that emission tend to be moderate and low in some cases, even though it is low and moderate it has an impact on once’s health causing chronic respiratory disease or cardiovascular diseases or sometimes it leads to heart attack. On predicting the emission levels till 2025 it is observed that the emission level is to be moderate and low for some pollutants, which causes impact on sustainability of the city in coming year in terms of public health.

In conclusion, on basing the findings of the analysis it observed that, Liverpool can be more sustainable city in terms on public health perspectives, when compared to London and Birmingham especially in winter and autumn seasons as these two cities are more emission when compared to Liverpool.
